Expand "from" doc (#4205)
brimdata/zed: docs/language/operators/from.md

### Synopsis

```

> from <pool>[@<branch|id>]

Author: This `[ => <leg> ]` seemed like copypasta so I dropped it. Please let me know if I'm wrong about this, though!

Also, `@tag` didn't seem to show up in other docs, so I went for the explicit `@<branch|id>` instead. Since the section on "Commitish" in the "Zed command" doc speaks of branch & id, I figured this was ok.

from <pattern>
file <path> [format <format>]
get <uri> [format <format>]
from (
   pool <pool>[@<branch|id>] [ => <leg> ]

>    pool <pattern> [ => <leg> ]

Author: @nwt: Good catch. Thanks!

The `from` operator identifies one or more data sources and transmits
their data to its output.  A data source can be
* the name of a data pool in a Zed lake, optionally at a specific [branch or commit ID](../../commands/zed.md#142-commitish);
* the names of multiple data pools, expressed as a [regular expression](../overview.md#711-regular-expressions) or [glob](../overview.md#712-globs) pattern;
* a path to a file; or
* an HTTP, HTTPS, or S3 URI.
Paths and URIs may be followed by an optional format specifier.

Sourcing data from pools is only possible when querying a lake, such as
via the [`zed` command](../../commands/zed.md) or
[Zed lake API](../../lake/api.md). Sourcing data from files is only possible
with the [`zq` command](../../commands/zq.md).

When a single pool name is specified without `@`-referencing a commit or ID, or
when using a pool pattern, the tip of the `main` branch of each pool is
accessed.

In the first four forms, a single source is connected to a single output.
In the fifth form, multiple sources are accessed in parallel and may be
[joined](join.md), [combined](combine.md), or [merged](merge.md).

> A data path can be split with the [fork operator](fork.md) as in

Author: This bit on `fork` and the parts that follow on `join` and `switch` feel semi-redundant with stuff in the Language Overview doc, so I thought about removing it all. However, since these all start out with `from` I figured they're worth keeping.

) | ...
```

The output of a fork consists of multiple legs that must be merged.
If the downstream operator expects a single input, then the output legs are

> merged with an automatically inserted [combine operator](combine.md).

Author: _This_ was wholly redundant with what's in the `fork` doc, so I _did_ drop this, since we already link to the `fork` doc.

by the following commands:

```mdtest-command
export ZED_LAKE=example
zed -q init
zed -q create coinflips
echo '{flip:1,result:"heads"} {flip:2,result:"tails"}' | zed -q -use coinflips load -
zed -q -use coinflips branch trial 
echo '{flip:3,result:"heads"}' | zed -q -use coinflips@trial load -
zed -q create numbers
echo '{number:1,word:"one"} {number:2,word:"two"} {number:3,word:"three"}' | zed -q -use numbers load -

> zed ls | awk '{ print $1 }' | sort

Author: I discovered late in the game that this `zed ls` output was not deterministic so sometimes the test would fail when the pool names came back in reverse order, hence the `sort`. Knowing this is metadata queried from the pool and how pool queries work, I wasn't altogether surprised by this. However, since this is user-facing data and it's not necessary for users to know how it's generated, it made me think that it might be appropriate for us to sort these automatically so it comes back deterministic, at least when requested via `zed`. Probably not a big deal regardless, but if anyone sees this comment & agrees I'll happily open up an issue so we can get to it later.

```

The lake then contains the two pools:

```mdtest-output
coinflips
numbers

> ```

Author: I actually didn't want to have to include any `mdtest-output` here, but it seems like in order to have an `mdtest-command` (such as I needed above to prep the Zed lake needed for the examples) I'd need to have a matching `mdtest-output`. Therefore I figured showing the pool names could make it happy while being brief & informative enough for the reader to not be seen as absolute clutter. 🤷‍♂️ 

It'd be cool if someone was willing to add some kind of `mdtest-command` option that says no matching `mdtest-output` is expected, but I'm happy to live without it for now.

The following file `hello.zson` is also used.

```mdtest-input hello.zson
{greeting:"hello world!"}
```

### Examples

_Source structured data from a local file_

```mdtest-command
zq -z 'file hello.zson | yield greeting'
```
=>
```mdtest-output
"hello world!"
```

_Source data from a local file, but in line format_
```mdtest-command
zq -z 'file hello.zson format line | head 1'
```
=>
```mdtest-output
"{greeting:\"hello world!\"}"
```

_Source structured data from a URI_
```mdtest-command
zq -z 'get https://raw.githubusercontent.com/brimdata/zui-insiders/main/package.json | yield productName'

> ```

Author: I'm prepared to live without protecting this as an `mdtest-command`, but am submitting for consideration. The down side of protecting it is that if you're running the tests when not Internet-connected, the test will always fail. I'm not sure if the negatives of that outweigh the benefits of having a protected test. 🤷‍♂️

) | ...
```

### Input Data

Examples below below assume the existence of the Zed lake created and populated
by the following commands:

```mdtest-command
export ZED_LAKE=example
zed -q init
zed -q create coinflips
echo '{flip:1,result:"heads"} {flip:2,result:"tails"}' | zed -q -use coinflips load -
zed -q -use coinflips branch trial 
echo '{flip:3,result:"heads"}' | zed -q -use coinflips@trial load -
zed -q create numbers
echo '{number:1,word:"one"} {number:2,word:"two"} {number:3,word:"three"}' | zed -q -use numbers load -
zed query -f text 'from :branches | yield pool.name + "@" + branch.name | sort'
```

The lake then contains the two pools:

```mdtest-output
coinflips@main
coinflips@trial
numbers@main
```

The following file `hello.zson` is also used.

```mdtest-input hello.zson
{greeting:"hello world!"}
```

### Examples

> _Source structured data from a local file_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Source data from a file_
```

```mdtest-command

> zq -z 'file hello.zson | yield greeting'
> ```
> =>
> ```mdtest-output
> "hello world!"

Reviewer: Simplify this?
```suggestion
zq -z 'file hello.zson'
```
=>
```mdtest-output
{greeting:"hello world!"}
```

```

> _Source data from a local file, but in line format_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Source data from a file, but in line format_
```

```mdtest-command

> zq -z 'file hello.zson format line | head 1'

Reviewer: Simplify this?
```suggestion
zq -z 'file hello.zson format line'
```

Author: @nwt: Derp. Yes, thank you. The `| head ` was a leftover from an earlier iteration where my ZSON file had multiple lines and I wanted to spare the reader excess output.

```
=>
```mdtest-output
"{greeting:\"hello world!\"}"
```

> _Source structured data from a URI_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Source data from a URI_
```

```
zq -z 'get https://raw.githubusercontent.com/brimdata/zui-insiders/main/package.json | yield productName'
```
=>
```
"Zui - Insiders"
```

> _Source data from a pool, defaulting to the `main` branch_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Source data from the `main` branch of a pool
```

```mdtest-command
zed -lake example query -z 'from coinflips'
```
=>
```mdtest-output
{flip:2,result:"tails"}
{flip:1,result:"heads"}
```

_Source data from a specific branch of a pool_
```mdtest-command
zed -lake example query -z 'from coinflips@trial'
```
=>
```mdtest-output
{flip:3,result:"heads"}
{flip:2,result:"tails"}
{flip:1,result:"heads"}
```

> _Count the number of records in the `main` branch of all pools_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Count the number of values in the `main` branch of all pools_
```
